MEDICAL CLINICAL TRIAL PROGRAM - This program runs a clinical trial system. The program processes data about the patients who will participate in the clinical trial for a new treatment for prostate cancer using nanotechnology. 

PROGRAM INPUT: The program uses data obtained either from walk-in patients, entered by the clinic receptionist, or from a data file of previously entered data. The form contains the means for the user to enter the patient's name, the maximum number of months that the
patient can participate in the trial, a random four-digit code (for which the user may use a button that generates a random number). The walk-in patients are added to a main list box after processing AND to a names list box that shows the patient's name and corresponding four-digit code. The user may also read the data already saved in the file, which contains four digit codes for patients and the maximum number of months for the trial (no names). 

DATA PROCESSING: When the file data is read into the program and/or when a new patient is added via input from walk-ins that data is processed, determining which of the four trials the patient will participate in the actual months for the trial (a random number between one month and maximum number of months inputted), and the number of treatments (generated randomly from the actual number of months). 

ADDITIONAL FILE HANDLING AND REPORT: The user may write all the data in the main list to the file at any time with a write to file button. Also, the form contains an append to file button in case additional input is obtained from walk-ins after the data is written to the file. Other buttons clear data, cancel last input, and allow the user to open the processed data file and generate a report (which outputs to a list box).

NEW FOR PROGRAM FOUR: ADDITIONAL DATA PROCESSING: Generation of the random numbers and output for each patient (number indicating which clinical trial, number of actual months on trial derived from maximum, and number of treatments) is completed in a business tier for better protection of data.

Only the maximum number of months, obtained from user input or from reading the data file, is passed through a constructor to the business tier to be used in calculating the actual number of months the patient will be on the trial and in turn the number of treatments. Needed data for output is returned to form through "get" and "return" commands.

SPECIAL PROCESSING: If a checkbox is checked, during user input of patient data, special rules for which clinical trials (only two of the four) and the number of months (only five through ten) must be used and so the data is passed to a derived tier, which inherits from the business tier and overrides the business tier for those values (trial and treatments).

ACCUMULATIONS: In the program four version, the number of walk-in patients (both with the check box and without) must be counted. These accumulations are completed in the business and derived tiers.

CLASS POINT OF VIEW: Continued use of basic controls, such as buttons, output to message box, exception handling via both try-catch and if-then, data validation via boolean operators, use of varipous data types including random numbers, processing user data. Use of SELECT CASE and IF-Then decision structures.  
Use of variables of various kinds: integer, decimal, string, boolean, random.
Use of Streamwriter and Streamreader to handle file output and input.
USE OF CLASSES: both a business tier class and a derived or "inherited" tier that overrides the business tier in special cases.

FOR TIERS AND CLASSES: Use of CONSTRUCTOR, passing arguments via calling the class, assigning parameters to properties, which in turn assign values to backing fields for use in calculations.
Properties Used: Text, Name, Tag, Tab Stop, Tab Index, Tooltip, Accept Button, Cancel Button, Font, back/forecolor among others.

Controls Used: Buttons, textbox, label, message box, and list boxes.

Methods Used: Close, Clear, Focus, Switch, ResetText, SelectAll, Trim, Parse, ToString, Concert.ToInt, new and next for Random numbers, MessageBox.Show.

Methods of list boxes used: Add and remove.
